#summary How you can contribute to Abot.
#labels Featured

==Contributing Code==
  * Read how to build and run tests [v1d5SourceCode here]
  * Keep the changes behind core interfaces (ie.. try not to break any contracts)
  * Submit pull requests to the master branch at http://github.com/sjdirect/abot/
  * Be sure all tests in Abot.Test.Unit and Abot.Test.Ingtegration are passing without being commented out or hacked
  * Be sure to write unit tests for any new code or changes

==We Currently Need==
  * Help implementing bug fixes on the [https://github.com/sjdirect/abot/issues Github Issues]
  * Help implementing new features and bug fixes on [https://github.com/sjdirect/abot/issues Github Issues]. Grab one, comment to let everyone know your progress, then submit a pull request when its polished and ready.
  * Automated performance tests. This would allow us to determine which configurations of Abot work best/worst in several different scenarios.
  * Dedicated or virtual dedicated hardware for the build server, deployment hub, distributed crawl testing, etc..
  * Contributors familiar with the mono environment to keep Abot running well on mono

==We Always Need==
  * Donations (See section below)
  * [https://github.com/sjdirect/abot Github] or [https://code.google.com/p/abot Google Code] stars
  * Spread the word on blogs/websites and tell others why Abot is great
  * Report bugs or suggest features [https://github.com/sjdirect/abot/issues here]
  * Let us know when you create a cool project that uses Abot
  * Let us know what we are doing right/wrong. Dont just grab and go.

==Consider Making A Donation==
A donation of any amount would be greatly appreciated. <br />
[https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=G6ZY6BZNBFVQJ https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donateCC_LG.gif]

Please reach out if you have other contribution ideas by emailing abotcrawler@gmail.com.