= Abot C# Web Crawler =

Abot is an open source C# web crawler built for speed and flexibility. It takes care of the low level plumbing (multithreading, http requests, scheduling, link parsing, etc..). You just register for events to process the page data. You can also plugin your own implementations of core interfaces to take complete control over the crawl process.
  * *Install using Nuget*: https://www.nuget.org/packages/Abot/
  * *Source code on Github*: http://github.com/sjdirect/abot/
  * *Documentation*: Check the tutorial links at the bottom of this page
  * *What Features Are Next?*: [https://www.surveymonkey.com/s/JS5826F Answer some questions] on how you use Abot so we can make the best decision where to spend our time 
  * *Consulting*: Steven (Abot's author) is available to [Consulting customize Abot to your specific needs] 
  * *Donate*: Please consider making a donation at the bottom of this page


== News: ==
  * 2014/12/25: Abot v1.5.0.1 released!!! See whats new https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/abot-web-crawler/iuaQWmbCvbs
  * 2014/12/25: Abot is gaining good traction. Over 230 stars on github and google code and almost 19,000 downloads, making it the most popular open source C# web crawler by a large margin. Be sure to star it on github and google code if you haven't already.

== What's So Great About It? == 
  * Open Source (Free for commercial and personal use)
  * Speed
  * Every part of the architecture is pluggable
  * Heavily unit tested (High code coverage)
  * Very lightweight
  * Easy to get started quickly
  * No database required
  * Easily customize crawl behavior (When to crawl a page, when not to crawl, when to crawl page's links, etc..)
  * Runs on Mono

== Where Do I Start? ==
  * [v1d5QuickStart Tutorial: QuickStart]
  * [v1d5CustomizingCrawlBehavior Tutorial: Customizing Crawl Behavior]
  * [v1d5SourceCode Tutorial: Working With The Source Code]
  * [https://groups.google.com/d/forum/abot-web-crawler Post Questions & Search For Answers]  
  * [https://github.com/sjdirect/abot/issues Report Bugs or Suggest Features]
  * [Contribute Contribute To Abot]

==Consider Making A Donation==
A donation of any amount would be greatly appreciated. <br />
[https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=G6ZY6BZNBFVQJ https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donateCC_LG.gif]